[Music]
nice can you hear
me all right welcome back everyone I
hope you had a nice
break um again my name is Roxy and I'm
excited to be hosting this first part of
the day with you all after we've just
had this really beautiful conversation
about the cryptech metaverse lab we get
to now hear from each of the artists who
created the prototypes and we get to
start with Melissa Malon who created the
de Club Melissa Malon is an activist
academic artist and digital strategist
with a love for language play
interactive experiences and
communitybased change she founded and
leads a creative research and
development at motion light Lab at a
godlet University Research Center
Melissa is a co-founder of Crest Network
focusing on equity and inclusion of deaf
people in Sign Language technology it
has been such a delight to get to work
with Melissa and her team over the last
few months and support the deaf Club
coming to the world in vierse and we get
to hear all about Melissa's passion and
the process of that and so much more now
welcome Melissa thank
you
perfect thank you
Roxy wonderful thank you all so much I
appreciate you Roxy for that beautiful
introduction I am so thrilled to be here
with you all today this has been such a
fun experience and a wonderful Journey
working with the HTC VI Arts team and
okay perfect making sure I'm in a good
position and working with Leonardo as
well I have to say that my CP Tech
fellows are tremendous people and I'm so
excited to share the de club with you
all today and talk about the reason
behind its existence and how it came to
be and so uh we've got some of that here
and after my talk I really encourage you
all to go take a chance to experience it
for yourself so the initial concept for
the de Club was to create a 3D immersive
sign centered
experience and we wanted it to be an
embodiment of a real life de club and to
be a place for a DEA Centric experience
for signing bodies and I have such an
amazing team that I've worked with I'd
like to thank Jean Wang who's here with
us in the audience today he is one of
our 3D animators he is a deaf person and
such a skilled
Artist Artist
is one of our Engineers that we've
worked with he's a developer on my team
and he's truly amazing at making
everything come together I'm so
appreciative of my team so we first
thought about just how to explore an
immersive experience and what that
actually means for a person who is in a
signing body and what that space should
look like for signing people and so we
had a lot lots of limitations and
roadblocks to work through initially
with our ideas we had to start
somewhere so the premise of all of this
and the reason why we created this
project is what you see here on stage
and the cryptech metaverse lab is
crucial to this work because it created
a space for speculative design and for
people who are interested in that work
this has been a longtime passion of mine
I have background in Creative literature
from a cultural perspective of deaf
people as well as integrating technology
into that work to create a truly
immersive experience and you have to
create a space for that to happen
initially for the creation to happen
right this work is often gate kept and
and I'm so appreciative of the space
that this collaborative has provided and
to use this project really as a
prototype and a way to leverage our
knowledge to spread our narrative our
traditions and our capital for the
collective community and to bring the
spirit of the deaf people into this
space is so
moving so in speaking about the why and
the reason for the work first I I'll
I'll talk first on the cultural
perspective and then move to the
technical aspect of the
work now first I think it's important to
tell you all that I'm a third generation
deaf person my grandparents and parents
are also deaf I also have a deaf child
so he's fourth generation deaf so that
means that I grew up in a truly
accessible linguistic environment my
family were assigning people U there
were shared stories and congregations of
deaf people as long as I can remember
people sharing their experience and
getting together specifically at De
clubs and de clubs were truly vibrant in
past years and I grew up in this space
and having access to get DEA clubs for a
tremendous amount of time however I will
say that the presence of De clubs has
slowly dwindled over the
years there is no specific Catalyst for
this demise of De clubs there are
several factors that have created this
issue uh some is just the movement of
people technological changes all of this
uh perhaps you know limited streams of
funding um less access for geological
space for PE people to gather together
so the the space has dwindled but the
need
has stayed the same and the the love for
Deaf spaces has stayed the same and so
now it becomes more temporary Space
versus static space we meet um together
in various places versus having a
singular de Club but you see that you
lose something when you don't have a
consistent area to meet you lose some of
the history and the tangibility when
you're constantly on the move and so the
metaverse is so pivotal for this because
first off who defines what the metaverse
means we've talked about the corporate
lens and uh the on the ground Grassroots
lens and what that really means for
people when you're creating an immersive
space and how to make that accessible
for multiple people but I didn't want
this to be kept and only seen and
experienced by a singular group of folks
I want this to be a broader experience
for so many people in our community and
also be a place to revitalize the things
that were once that were once lost in
our community a place to share a
meaningful experience but also trying to
understand what that looks like and
create it in a seminal way to still be
reflective of what once was in our
community and iterate that for future
possibility and we do that through this
project in in the metaverse and it's
been such an imaginative experience in
just creating a place
that is a springboard for future
iterations in more spaces that can
potentially become real life places for
people to meet and so this is all the
cultural perspective of why we've
created the metaphor death club now from
a technological aspect I will say that
there have been quite a number of
barriers with this work
uh having signing bodies signing fluent
avatars within the metaverse is not uh
capable at this point in the development
and so my work at motion light lab is
heavily immersed in signing fluent
avatars and so we know that in future
iterations it will be absolutely
possible and through breaking down these
barriers we know that we will have
signing bodies in the metaverse and
signing a avatars and so I'm pleased to
know that we're have that we'll have
several collaborators with us on this
journey
and we know that the decision mechanisms
often don't include minoritized groups
and working with an underrepresented
Community is so important because you
provide so many varied perspectives for
a project like this and so to have
fluency in Motion in a spatial body
spatial world and a spatial language for
our community is truly amazing and the
fact that we can break down these
barriers in the future to provide that
for our community is wonderful and
actually the last thing that I'll
mention to you
so de clubs have always been cherished
within our community as a place to enjoy
and celebrate and come together and
through this project and looking at
barriers in the community and things
that once were and are no no longer we
just remember that the most important
thing we all need is space and that's
what the metaverse has provided so in
talking about the
process we'll speak to what is within
our de Club so first uh once you go in
there is a bar area and the deaf
Community knows you also must have a
place
for um performance and so there is an
audience stage area as well on the
second floor FL there is a gallery and a
president's office we have time and
again put so much intention into this
project and little bits of Deaf culture
and the ideas that we have within the
space are truly representative of our
people and the top floor is the rooftop
a secondary bar and open for you immense
possibility and Imagination and so the
core purpose of this work is to create a
large open space for people and things
that we have placed in and around the
space uh within our theater you will see
that there is a video compilation that
is playing on a large screen in front of
the stage and that compilation is
seminal moments within the deaf
Community or inspiring videos or things
that were created by and for deaf people
that we edited together for people to
watch it is on running on a loop in this
space it's ran on an old-fashioned
projector and I'll tell you the reason
why we have the old-fashioned projector
so back in the day when de clubs were at
their strongest people would go watch
old movies on an old film projector in
De clubs and the reason was because
there were no open captions in movie
theaters anymore and so what would
happen is the actual film with captions
and the projector would be passed around
from De Club to Def Club to Def Club so
that people could have access to film
and so we included the old projector in
there for people to see and we include
various bits of art from several artists
here and so we wanted to make it a space
that was truly representative of deaf
people and so we set a call for artists
to submit their work to us and initially
I thought that I was going to have to
chase people down and see if I could get
some work to put here in our de club and
we were absolutely just dismayed with
the amount of people who submitted work
so many artists were interested from all
over the world in having their art
showcased in the de Club there are 50
different pieces of art from 30 separate
artists from around the world exhibited
within our de Club some of the artists
were from Berlin Spain Denmark several
from the United States and so was an
amazing outpouring of love for our
project and so in this um I asked a
question of the artists when asking for
them to submit their work I asked if
anyone had access to a virtual world
through a headset an Oculus of sorts or
a headset that HTC would provide and
every single person said that they
didn't have the technology they didn't
have access to the technology and so the
access and use of VR is very limited and
that's one thing that we are working
against because people are interested
they're motivated to be a part of our
project and be within the space if you
were here last night on opening night it
was amazing so many folks from the deaf
Community came out they wanted to see
our work I had previously posted on
social media explaining about the
project and what that was going to mean
for our community and the engagement was
immense and so this was the seeing the
moment that people put on the headset
and just watching their response in
traversing the death Club was really
amazing and it showed that the realm of
possibilities is huge and something is
here and we are we are on strong footing
so very exciting work so talking a
little bit about the actual
de Club itself so you see here on screen
the architecture and Aesthetics of the
de Club in the metaverse was inspired by
a real life building here in San
Francisco it's actually only a couple of
blocks from the gray area area theater
it's now a restaurant but back in the
day it was a deaf Club this was back in
the 1970s or 80s or so and it was a very
robust and Lively de Club it also housed
punk band concerts on occasion as well
so there was really interesting scene
with Punk folks and deaf folks and
fascinating history was within this
building so we included the aesthetic
architecture from that building into our
de club and actually two people last
night who came to our opening night had
Direct experience with the de Club as it
used to be here in San Francisco and so
you really see the Grassroots Community
connect nection with what we've created
to the people here in San Francisco and
so things can seem very ethereal right
and no real connection it's very flowery
but then once you give it to the
community you see that it has true
meaning and so this is an amazing realm
for us we were so pleased with last
night's event and how it's connected
back to the community so this is the de
Club out
front
first I would like to show the list of
tremendous artists who've contributed
work to the de club with a various
medium we had animators 3D artists uh
painters photographers folks who use ink
and pen and so we have uh ceramic
artists as well who submitted work for
the several videos so a multitude of
artists submitted to this project some
even came last night which was amazing I
couldn't believe uh seeing them in
person and them getting to see their own
art was
magnificent just to show you a bit about
the art and the various pieces that we
have and we asked for art that was
representative of the deaf experience is
what we asked artists to submit and so
this is a bit of what we got from
various artists
now the one here in the middle is from
Christine Sun Kim and she is an
wonderful amazing artist I really hope
that you all follow her after this
presentation she's been largely
supportive of this work and she
submitted this piece specifically for
only the deaf Club in the
metaverse these are other pieces of art
that are within the space as well this
one
de not death by Connor cumins uh Connor
was present last night at opening night
he got to see his piece within the de
club
and I was telling Roxy about the
captions and how AI captions are often
uh not
representative of what people are saying
and speaking we know that AI captions
are not 100% accurate and usually what
happens is when AI captions are are used
it thinks that people are saying death
and not deaf and so if you pay attention
to the captions here on the side you
actually might see that but so that
piece was in reference to AI captions
and the lack of clarity it
provides we included a DEA Club code
within the space as well and we were
careful to think about the kind of
spirit we wanted to create within the
space we wanted it to be open for the
deaf community of course but then also
it needed to be a place for anyone
whether you deaf or hearing we wanted it
to be an inviting and engaging area for
people to congregate and learn and then
go back to their everyday everyday lives
and share their experience and so this
is a place for people to feel welcome to
explore uh to come with an open heart
and mind and be curious
and and to feel uplifted in the space as
well and so this all is a representation
of people what people bring to the
metaverse and in an avatar form I will
say that right now the avatars do look
somewhat strange and you do have choppy
movements when you're going in and
around the space it's not fluid but that
doesn't make us less human right when
you're in this space so we wanted to
keep the human aspect in all that you
could and can be in the metaverse even
if your visual representation in that
space is less
fluid I really enjoyed the panel uh that
was right before my presentation because
it was talking about the future
capabilities of what we can bring to the
space because we do have a multitude of
ideas uh this work is so expansive and
actually last night on opening night
various deaf people after they hit taken
off the headset and went in and around
the space had an outpouring of ideas and
suggestions of what could be and so the
PO the possibilities are immense but
specific things we would like to keep
within or add within the space are here
on screen we would love to see mirrors
within our space So within deaf homes
and in places the deaf Community
congregates you will often see mirrors
because it gives you
far more access to visual sight lines
than what you can see with your own eyes
you can see in front behind you
everywhere in a space and so
unfortunately with the camera angles
within the metaverse the mirror aspect
is not as functional as we'd like for it
to be but in future iterations we want
to see mirrors people to be able to see
their signing selves as well within the
metaverse and then see each other and
interact with more
people we'd also like to say or to
see individual avatars in their own
signing style because the greater
essence of the deaf experience is that
not everyone speaks the same right much
like hearing people you sound different
deaf people sound different to each
other and we wanted to bring that
essence of self into the Met ierse and
we hope to do that through better
dexterity for signing avatars and we
want this to be a space
for narrative driven experiences for a
person's own lived experience uh to be
in a space we want to have live
experiences as well for people to feel
like they can experiment and have more
possibility of Engagement within a space
and we know that it will be available to
us in the future we also thought
about the possibility of Hosting 3D
workshops within a def space and much
like this experience where you come to
learn uh we want to have that available
to us within the metaverse we thought
about the creation of a sculpture garden
and what that could look like and so
really you could do just about anything
the possibilities are endless uh there's
no limitations honestly and so in
through this project my team had a
relative tough time deciding when to
stop we wanted to keep adding up down to
the wire and we had to figure out a
place to to end but
again I just like to say that what you
see here
is the purpose of the space and this
purpose was truly confirmed last night
after the seeing the outpouring from our
community and how we can share this
space with more people is what we would
like to see next and create more
opportunities for access to virtual
reality and see what the possibilities
lie ahead for us in this
space so first off I I really should
thank all of these people the list is
quite large and sorry I think I'm
standing in front of the list so you
can't even see some of the folks are on
here but so many folks were a part of
this Pro process and I truly thank them
for their work so in
closing again I would like to thank you
all for coming and listening to the
folks here it has been a true joy to be
a part of this process there have been
challenges along the way but it has been
true
exploration and experimentation for us
and just to see what is possible and how
we can break barriers and find new ways
is amazing and to we want to create an
expansive experience for people in the
future thank you all so
[Applause]
much so we hoped to have Q&A but we're a
little bit behind um I did have two
questions for Melissa and so I might
just tell you what those were Melissa
and maybe later we can talk about them
or I invite other people to ask because
they're really fun questions one of
those is about some of the Easter eggs
that are inside of the de Club yesterday
you were telling me about them whenever
we were doing the art walk and it was so
cool and so I recommend that you find
Melissa and ask her about some of these
Easter eggs and the other question
question was going to be about what you
imagine that creating signing avatars
will do in the future for the deaf
community and just really imagining into
that future so those are the things that
I wanted to talk about and I hope that
those Inspire conversation with Melissa
directly and I'll definitely come to
talk about those things with you with
you later today and thank you so much
what a beautiful gift for your community
and for all of us and the fact that the
pieces actually set in San Francisco is
really connecting to that sort of notion
of place-based work and um I I also want
to hear about the stories from your
community that you heard and their ideas
that came forward last
night so thank you Melissa thank you
thank you thank you thank you so much I
apprciate it thank you for everything
you've done with this project appreciate
it and actually I would like to answer
your question if I can very quickly and
then I want to move on
if it's we're we're very behind I would
love to I just want to plant those seeds
and um we will definitely have time to
talk about them in the
exhibition absolutely thank you Melissa
yeah please feel free folks to come talk
to me more about signing avatars the
possibilities are so exciting in this
new realm thank you so
much